# Date
14 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivatives
- Locally Weighted Regression

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Video -> 3blue1brown (essence of calculus), Standford University cs229: Lecture 2 

## Concepts Learned

### Derivative as a Function (Stewart Calculus)

The derivate of a function is itself a function that represents 
the change of the orignal function corresponding to the input.

### Integral is just inverse operation of the derivative (3blue1brown)

Integral Seems to be inverse operator of the derivative as it 
gives the orignal function given the derivative function by
integrating the area of derived function to the orignal function.

### Locally Weighted Regression
Locally weighted Regression falls under non-parametric model which uses
the data/parameters to give weight(w) to focus and predict the target(y) given
input(x).

Fit $\theta$ to mimimize:
                   $$
                    m
                   \Sum w^(i)((\theta^T)*X^(i) - Y^(i))^2
                   i=1$$

where w equals:
                $$
                w^(i)= exp(-(x^(i) - x)/(2 *\tau^2))
                $$


## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
Dataset: **Housing Price Dataset**
Configuration: **Locally Weighted Regression**
Results: **Model Failed to Converge**

Conclusion: Seems to be that i have done some mistakes in applying and understanding the equation of the LWR.

## Observations

What surprised me?
Finding the Global minima of the function using derivative seems to work to make inference to similar features
by reducing the cost of the function.

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did my model did not converge?
2. How does the area under the curve of a derived fuction integrate to orignal function?
3. How did newton calculate formulate calculus and used it to calculate the motion of the planets and objects?


## Next Actions

Tomorrow: 
1. Fix the issues related to Locally Weighted Regression
2. Learn more deeply about derivates and Slove problems from Stewart Calculus
3. Learn how the calculus is connected to Machine Learning.