# Date
16 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivatives
- Locally Weighted Regression
- How computer systems work from first principles?

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Video -> 3blue1brown (essence of calculus), Standford University cs229: Lecture 2

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### How the derivate of sine is cosine and cosine is -sine (Stewart Calculus)

As $\theta$ approaches zero on a small interval, it seems that a tiny change of $f(x) = \sin(x)$ approaches $\frac{\text{adjacent}}{\text{hypotenuse}}$, which is $\cos(\theta)$. Conversely, when the function is $f(x) = \cos(x)$, the tiny change seems to approach $-\frac{\text{opposite}}{\text{hypotenuse}}$, which is $-\sin(\theta)$.

### As long as the subject is about finding pattern in change(motion) we can always invoke calculus. (3blue1brown)

As it seems calculus was invented to capture the patterns of change. But the Integration and derivation were
invented seperately all newton and gotfried did was connect those ideas by proving the rigorously.

### Linear Regression

Linear Regression is used to predict for the data that have linear realtion. Such as incase of the 
housing price the relation with the data was linear as the varable were changing linearly the target was too.
In linear regression we fit a straight line model by parameters (for features) and an error(to capture unfiltered noise in data).

Fit $\theta$ to minimize Cost function:

$$
J(\theta) = \sum_{i=1}^{m} \left( \theta^T X^{(i)} - Y^{(i)} \right)^2
$$

With help of Gradient Descent:

$$
\theta_j := \theta_j - \alpha \cdot \text{cost}^{(i)} \cdot X_j^{(i)}
$$


## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
- Dataset: **Housing Price Dataset**
- Configuration: **Linear Regression**
- Results: **Model converged**
- Conclusion: Model converged but the result is not optimal so we will still look at this and LWR.

Experiment 2:
- Dataset: **Housing Price Dataset**
- Configuration: **Locally Weighted Regression**
- Results: **Model didn't converge**
- Conclusion: Checked everything but it seems the values are exploading as i am applying Stochastic Gradient Descent.

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

There is always tradeoff between space and time in computer systems.

`computing > storing everything.`

Until this too breaks where if we store large amount of data at scale, which gets harder to compute and not resource effetive.

So we used cache to store to avoid recomputing.

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. what am i missing that my LWR is not converging?
2. How the $\sqrt(x)$ is represented in area?
3. Why and how did we connect derivates and integrals together?


## Next Actions

Tomorrow:

1. Fix the issues related to Locally Weighted Regression.
2. Approach mathematics in a way with rigorous proofs and make a roadmap to understand why we invented calculus in the first place.