# Date
17 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Logistic Regression
- Proofs from scratch in mathematics (theorems)
- Derivaties

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Book -> How to prove it - Velleman
- Video -> Stanford University cs229: Lecture 3

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### We have to form and conjecture and prove it to call it a theorem.(How to prove it - Velleman)

Marin Mersenne(1588-1648) developed two conjectures:

For any integer n > 1:

Conjecture 1:

If $n$ is prime, then:

$$
2^n - 1
$$

is a prime.

Conjecture 2:

If $n$ is not prime, then:

$$
2^n - 1
$$

is a not a prime.

Conjecture 1 is false as prime 11 contradicts it.
Conjecture 2 was eventually proven so it is called a theorem now.

### Logistic Regression (Stanford cs229: Lec 3)
Logistic Regression(Sigmoid function) is a classifier Model where we fit the parameters
to classify the output using a threshold between 0 and 1 which is also
bow as binary classifier.

To Find optimal Parameters we minimize:

$$
J(\theta) = -\frac{1}{m} \sum_{i=1}^{m} \left[ y^{(i)} \log\left(h_\theta(x^{(i)})\right) + (1 - y^{(i)}) \log\left(1 - h_\theta(x^{(i)})\right) \right]
$$

Using Gradient Descent:

$$
\theta_j := \theta_j + \alpha \frac{1}{m} \sum_{i=1}^{m} \left( y^{(i)} - h_\theta(x^{(i)}) \right) x_j^{(i)}
$$

## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
- Dataset: **Loan Approved Dataset**
- Configuration: **Logistic Regression**
- Results: **Model converged**
- Conclusion: Model converged and seems to working preety good probably 80% accuray(haven't mesured by metrics just assumption).
- Link [My Logistic Regression Implementation](https://github.com/Krishna-Karkii/Applied_ML_Math_Heavy/blob/main/Applied_in_Python/Supervised/Logistic_regression/src/logistic_regression.py)

Experiment 2:
- Dataset: **Housing Price Dataset**
- Configuration: **Locally Weighted Regression**
- Results: **Model didn't converge**
- Conclusion: Replaced min-max scaling with Standardrized scaling still not converging will keep looking on this.
- Link [My Locally Weighted Regression Implementation](https://github.com/Krishna-Karkii/Applied_ML_Math_Heavy/blob/main/Applied_in_Python/Supervised/Locally_weighted_regression/src/locally_weighted_regression.py)


## Exercise Compeleted

- 2.1 Exercise of stewart calculus completed today.

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

- *We use gradient descent in Linear regression and gradient ascent in Logistic regression(classification).*
- *Mathematics was way advanced in past 2000 years than i thought(Euclid elements).*

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. How do classical Models connect to current industry LLMs?
3. Why is naming in computer programming oddly similar to mathematical terminologies?
4. Why is product of log equal to the sum of logs?
5. What is Maximum Likelihood Estimation?


## Next Actions

Tomorrow:

1. Hopefully understand how newton invented calculus connecting issac borrow and pierre de fermat theorems.
2. Learn about deductive reasoning.(velleman)
3. Understand about probabilistic intepretation (lec 3)
4. Solve 2.2 problems (stewart calculus)