# Date
18 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Perceptron
- Deductive Reasoning
- Derivaties

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Book -> How to prove it - Velleman
- Video -> Stanford University cs229: Lecture 4

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Perceptron (cs229: stanford lec 4)

Perceptron uses decison boundry $\theta$ to classify the ouptut where there is no threshold as
logistic(sigmoid) function. we just simply add or subract using gradient descent to the $\theta$ 
to make the decision boundry more accurate.

To find optimal parameters we minimize the cost function:

$$
J(\theta) = -\frac{1}{m} \sum_{i=1}^{m} \left[ y^{(i)} \log\left(h_\theta(x^{(i)})\right) + (1 - y^{(i)}) \log\left(1 - h_\theta(x^{(i)})\right) \right]
$$

Using Gradient Descent:

$$
\theta_j := \theta_j + \alpha \frac{1}{m} \sum_{i=1}^{m} \left( y^{(i)} - h_\theta(x^{(i)}) \right) x_j^{(i)}
$$

However perceptron is a really naive algorithm, it doesn't work for messy classification.
It only works where data can be smoothly split by a decision boundry.

### Deductive Reasoning (1.1 How to prove it - Velleman)

Deductive reasoning is a technique we use and have been using where we use premises(statements)
to arrive at a conclusion by deducing through reasoning.

Example:

It will either rain or snow tommorow.

It's too warm for the snow.

Therefore it will rain.

If we observe the above structure we can see we use following way to reason out:

P = it will rain

Q = it will snow

P or Q

Not Q so P.

We can further solve this type of problems using connective symbols to deduce a conclusion.
We use conjuction, disjunction, negation etc to come to certain conclusion using the deductive method.

Mathematical proofs all follow deductive reasoning pattern.


## Experiments Performed

No experiments today :(


## Exercise Compeleted

- 12/66 question of exercise 2.2 completed today. (stewart calculus)
- 7 Introductury quesion completed today. (how to prove it - velleman)

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

- *Normal Conversation can be thought as Logical connectivies and can be reperesented using connective symbols.*
- *Connective symbols is not translated from word to word but rather by what the statement means.*

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (i hope to research all this tommorow)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. How do classical Models connect to current industry LLMs?
3. Why is naming in computer programming oddly similar to mathematical terminologies?
4. Why is product of log equal to the sum of logs?
5. What is Maximum Likelihood Estimation?
6. Do llms use logical connectives or can the be tarined on that?


## Next Actions

Tomorrow:

1. Research on how newton invented calculus connecting issac borrow and pierre de fermat theorems.
2. Learn deductive reasoning problem set.(velleman)
3. Understand about probabilistic intepretation (lec 3)
4. Solve 2.2 problems (stewart calculus)
5. Apply Perceptorn.