# Date
19 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Deductive Reasoning (exercise)
- Derivaties (intuition)
- Computer System understanding
---
## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Book -> How to prove it - Velleman
- Book -> Computer Systems - A programmers Prespective 3rd Edition
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of calculus)
---
## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Function Can Integrate To a New Function (3blue1Brown)

If a function can be integrated to formulate a new function than that function can be thought as
derived function of the new function.

When we deriveda function f(x) we are just taking **Constant Approximation** of rate of change of the function at x,
such that the derived function f'(x) is just a function that contains its output(y) which is just rate of change of f(x) for the corresponding input x.

So we can think of the range of the derivate function of f'(x) as approximation of rate of changes of f(x) at x.

### C statements are converted to sequence of low level machine-language instruction. (Computer Systems - A programmers prespective)

C statements are converted to executable object files with id.

C file execution cycle: 

```text
       hello.c (Source program (text))
          |

    | Preprocessor |
          |
       hello.i (Modified source program (text))
          |

     | Compiler (cc1) |
          |
       hello.s (Assembly program (text))
          |

     | Assembler (as) |
          |
       hello.o (Relocatable object program (binary))
          |

      | Linker (ld) |
          |
       hello (Executable object program (binary))
```
---

## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
- Dataset: **Spam Classification**
- Configuration: **Classic Perceptron**
- Results: **Model converged**
- Conclusion: Model converged and seems to working preety good probably 90% accuray(haven't mesured by metrics just assumption).
- Link [My Perceptron Implementation](https://github.com/Krishna-Karkii/Applied_ML_Math_Heavy/blob/main/Applied_in_Python/Supervised/Perceptron/src/perceptron.py)

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 30/66 question of exercise 2.2 completed today. (stewart calculus)
- 9 exercises question from 1.1 (how to prove it - velleman)

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

- *Perceptron worked with better accuracy than logistic regression* 
- *Exponential families are converging more effectively and easily than my linear and locally weighted regression*

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (Question keep piling😔)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. How do classical Models connect to current industry LLMs?
3. Why is naming in computer programming oddly similar to mathematical terminologies?
4. Why is product of log equal to the sum of logs?
5. What is Maximum Likelihood Estimation?
6. Do llms use logical connectives or can the be trained on that?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. Understand exponential families (lec 4)
2. Research on how newton invented calculus connecting issac borrow and pierre de fermat theorems.
3. Understand about probabilistic intepretation (lec 3)
4. Solve 2.2 problems (stewart calculus)

---