# Date
20 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Truth Tables (velleman)
- Vector Spaces

---
## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Book -> How to prove it - Velleman
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of linear Algebra)

---
## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Vector space is what the basis vector can access with help of scaler multiplication and vector addition (3blue1Brown)

A Vector space is just byproduct of what the basis vectors define it to be. It can be two dimensional or any number of the dimension can the basis we define it to be (but has to be finite).

$$
F^{(n)}
$$

Here we have n dimensional vector defined by their basis it they are not linearly dependent.

### We can use Truth Table to verify it the argument is valid or not(Velleman).

We can use truth table to track if the argument we made by drawing the conclusion is either valid or invalid.
Truth table helps us to see and track the premises of an argument, where if the premises cannot be all true without the conclusion being true.

---

## Experiments Performed

No Experiments :(

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 40/66 question of exercise 2.2 completed today. (stewart calculus)

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

#### To fit the probability distribution to data we connect calculus, statistic and probability 🤯

We Use calculus for:

Running Gradient descent or Ascent so that we can calculate the Slope of the distribution and when we reach the slope of zero it means the model has converged because we reached the mean of the distribution where the rate of change is zero. 🤯

We use Statistic and Probability for:

Figuring out and using Which kind of distribution actually Uses fits our data well.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. Why is product of log equal to the sum of logs?
3. How do llms actually parallel compute when we draw inference?
4. How do we know which distribution to fit to data when selecting classical models?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:

1. Understand exponential families (lec 4)
2. Research on how newton invented calculus connecting issac borrow and pierre de fermat theorems.
3. Understand about probabilistic intepretation (lec 3)
4. Solve 2.2 problems (stewart calculus)

---