# Date
21 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Linear Transformations
- Derivaties
- Exponential Families
---
## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th Edition
- Book -> Linear Algebara done right 
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of calculus)
- video -> stanford: cs229 (Lec: 4)

---
## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Exponential Families are Used because of their convex property, maximizing entropy and compressing data. (Lec4 & websurfing)

Exponential families have peculiar properties that no other distribution families have:

- Compressed summaries of the data which saves a lot of computing.
- Gradient descent/ascent swiftly converges (no jagged landscape).
- maximizing the entropy with no human bias.

Any other distribution families contains either human bias, computing loads or jagged terrains. (Have to explore this in detail.)

### Linear Transformations is correcty only if origin is fixed and the coordinate system is evenly spaced. (3blue1Brown)

Linear Transformations transform the vector space in a way where the linearity of the field is preserved.

A Linear Transformed space must have following properties:

* **Additivity**: 
  $$L(\mathbf{v}_1 + \mathbf{v}_2) = L(\mathbf{v}_1) + L(\mathbf{v}_2)$$
* **Homogeneity**: 
  $$L(c\mathbf{v}) = cL(\mathbf{v})$$

### Matrix can be viewed as Linear Transformation of vector space. (3blue1brown)

A matrix can be thought of linear transformation of vector space which defines where the basis vectors land for the transformed space.

If we know where the basis vector land we can explore all the points(entire vector space) of those transformation.


### Linear dependence and Independence (3blue1brown)

If the vector is linearly dependent than they don't add any value to access the dimension of the vector space restricting themselves to subspace of the vector space.

If they are linearly independent the they can span to full vector space defined.
---

## Experiments Performed

No experiments :(

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 55/66 question of exercise 2.2 completed today. (stewart calculus)
- 10 exercises question from 1.1 (linear algebra done right )

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No specific observations today.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. deep dive exponential families (lec 4 & research)
2. Understand about probabilistic intepretation (lec 3)
3. finish 2.2 problems (stewart calculus)
4. explore 1.2 (linear algebra done right)

---