# Date
21 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Matrix multiplication intution
- Generalized Linear Models

---

## Resources

- Book -> Linear Algebara done right 
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of Linear Algebra)
- video -> stanford: cs229 (Lec: 4)

---
## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Matrix Multiplication can be thought as order of Linear transformations(3blue1brown).

A Matrix Multiplication is just Linear tranformations applied from right to left.

$$
M_2 \cdot M_1 = T_2 \circ T_1 (Linear transformation Composed of matrix 1 and 2)
$$

It is just a numeric way to describe transformation of the vector space.
A matrix just shows us what the current basis vectors are which determine the vector space entirely.

### Vector space can be defined with a set of properties. (Linear algebra done right)

Vector Space(V) must have addtion and scalar multiplication to manipulate the vectors.

The set of Properties:

* **Commutativity**
  $$u + v = v + u \quad \forall u, v \in V$$

* **Associativity**
  $$(u + v) + w = u + (v + w) \quad \text{and} \quad (ab)v = a(bv) \quad \forall u, v, w \in V, \, a, b \in F$$

* **Additive Identity**
  $$\mathbf{0} \in V, \quad v + \mathbf{0} = v \quad \forall v \in V$$

* **Additive Inverse**
  $$\forall v \in V, \quad \exists w \in V \quad \text{such that} \quad v + w = \mathbf{0}$$

* **Multiplicative Identity**
  $$1v = v \quad \forall v \in V$$

* **Distributivity**
  $$a(u + v) = au + av \quad \text{and} \quad (a + b)v = av + bv \quad \forall a, b \in F, \, u, v \in V$$

### Generalized Linear Models require exponential families because of convex property. (Lec4 & websurfing)

As the data can suggest which distribution our data belongs to we can selected the distributon which fits our criteria.

- House prices -> Normal Distribution
- Spam classifier -> Bernoulli Distribution
- Website traffic counts -> Poisson Distribution

As exponential families provide:
- smooth calculus (convex bowls)
- squeezes a straight line to 0 and 1 (logistic)

---

## Experiments Performed

No experiments :(

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 1.2 excercis of linear algebra done right

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No specific observations today.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. Experiment on exponential families
3. solve 20 problems 2.3 problems
4. explore 1.3 (linear algebra done right)

---