# Date
24 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivaties (2.3 stewart)
- Determinents

---

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition
- Book -> Linear Algebara done right 
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of Linear Algebra)

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Determiants shows how much the vector space has squeezed, expanded or fliped orientation (3blue1brown).

As the vector space is linearly transformed using matrix, we can use determinants to know certain properties of the vector space.

- How much has the vector space grid lines changed(squeezed or expanded)?
- If the orientation has fliped then determinant is negative.
- Determinant zero means the dimension has been reduced by the linear transformation.

### Differentiation formulas (2.3 stewart calculus)

* **Sum Rule**
  $$\frac{d}{dx}[f(x) + g(x)] = f'(x) + g'(x)$$

* **Difference Rule**
  $$\frac{d}{dx}[f(x) - g(x)] = f'(x) - g'(x)$$

* **Product Rule**
  $$\frac{d}{dx}[f(x)g(x)] = f'(x)g(x) + f(x)g'(x)$$

* **Quotient Rule**
  $$\frac{d}{dx}\left[\frac{f(x)}{g(x)}\right] = \frac{f'(x)g(x) - f(x)g'(x)}{[g(x)]^2}$$
  
---

## Experiments Performed

No experiments :(

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 20/108 excercises of 2.3 stewart calculus completed

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No specific observations today.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. Start to understand unix shell
2. solve 45/108 problems 2.3 problems
3. explore 1.3 (linear algebra done right)
4. revise calculus intuition

---