# Date
24 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Introduction to OS (OSTEP 2.1)
- Linear Algebra (3blue1brown, Linear Algebra Done right)
- Calculus (Stewart 2.3)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition
- Book -> Linear Algebara done right 
- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of Linear Algebra)

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Operating System virtualizes hardware(resources) to run programs. (OSTEP)

Virtualizion is process of creating virtual form of hardware iself.

* **Physical resources** (Memory, processor, disk)
    * *Transforms to:* Easy-to-use virtual form of itself 

* **Now users can:**
    * Tell what to do
        * *To make use of virtual machines:*
            * OS provides **APIs** that we can call.
                * These calls are used to **run programs**, **access memory**, and **control devices** at the application level.


### Rank of matrix determines either the matrix has linearly dependent Columns. (3blue1Brown)

A Matrix can be asscoiated with having a rank which stores information of how the matrix spans the vector space.

- if matrix has less rank than number of columns it doesn't span full space.
- Rank can determine if a matrix has linearly dependent columns.

---

## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
- Overview: **Applied simple loop program to Understand CPU virtualization** 
- Path: **02_Experiments/Understanding_os/2_OSTEP**
- Reference: **OSTEP section 2.1**

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 45/120 excercises of 2.3 stewart calculus completed

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No specific observations today.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. solve 70/120 problems 2.3 problems
2. explore 1.3 and solve again didn't understand today 😔(linear algebra done right)
3. explore OSTEP and follow the experiments

---