# Date
27 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivaties (stewart calculus)
- Column space (3blue1brown)
- Null space (3blue1brown)
- Inverse Matrix (3blue1brown)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition
- Video -> 3blue1brown (Essence of Linear Algebra)

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Column Space is just span define by your transformation matrix columns. (3blue1Brown)
Column Space is the span of the vector space defined by the coloums of the matrix(linear transformation) which determines how the transformation has altered the space that you span currently.

### Null Space is vectors collapsing into the origin. (3blue1brown)
When transformation is performed in your vector space and the determinant is 0, which means the vector space has collapsed in smaller dimension then whole lot of vector gets collapsed to origin(meaning those vectors now span null space).

### Inverse Matrix is when a matrix inverses a transformation. (#3blue1brown)
Inverse Matrix is a matrix than undoes a transformation done by any other matrix.

- For a inverse matrix to exist the determinat or the rank must never reduce.
- Inverse Matrix are used to trace the origin vector that landed onto the transformed vector.

---

## Experiments Performed

No experiments today

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 90/120 excercises of 2.3 stewart calculus completed

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

*Every Concepts about Linear algebra and computer science feels abstraction of a deeper system which is described by a terminology, which sometimes doesn't click just through terminology and requires understanding the system itself rather than visiting theory and terminology.*

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. solve 110-120/120 problems 2.3 problems
2. Visit concepts of columns space, rank, null space more deeply
3. explore OSTEP 2.2

---