# Date
28 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivatives (stewart calculus)
- 2.3 Concurrency (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition
- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Threads share same virtual private memory space of the program. (OSTEP) 

When we compile a run multi threaded programs, they share same virtual memory space created by os for the program.

How it works?

- A program is complied and runned.
- Threads are created for concurrency.
- They can access and write the same memory space.

Now the problem arises how can we optimally manage thread for improving the concurreny, it seems to be it is going to cause a lot of problem if the thread is managed poorly(not utilizing the cpu fully).

The problem arises because of the Instruction cycle and work we are doing with the program.

I don't understand how can i fix that now but hopefully in future we can write a huge production level code implementing this ideas.😎

---

## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
- Overview: **Applied program to Understand Memory virtualization** 
- Path: **02_Experiments/Understanding_os/2_OSTEP**
- Reference: **OSTEP section 2.1**

Experiment 2:
- Overview: **Applied program to Understand Concurrency** 
- Path: **02_Experiments/Understanding_os/2_OSTEP**
- Reference: **OSTEP section 2.1**

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 112/120 excercises of 2.3 stewart calculus completed

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No remarkable Observation today.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. solve 110-120/120 problems 2.3 problems
2. Visit concepts of columns space, rank, null space more deeply
3. explore OSTEP 2.2

---