# Date
30 June 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivatives (stewart calculus)
- Linear Algebra
- Complete unit 2 (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition
- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Book -> Linear Algebra Done Right
- Video -> Essence of Linear Algebra - 3blue1brown

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Persistance in OS is handle by a part of OS called file system. (OSTEP)
File Systems is a part of the os responsible for managing the files created by the user.

How does file System work?
- Figures out where data should persist in storage device.
- Keeping track of file in various structure (managed by file system).
- issuing IO request to storage device(to read existing structure to update/write them).

### Abstraction is dividing the system into pieces/parts of a bigger function system. (OSTEP)

Abstraction is the process of dividing the a system by its piece and parts.

Suppose for example assume the system as a car.

The whole car is a system. if you break it down in parts:
- Accelator (for spped)
- Brakes (to stop)
- Steering (Direction)

If you see a whole car you would assume it as a single body, But it is divided by many subcomponents which handle different part of the whole system.

---

## Experiments Performed

No experiments.

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 120/120 excercises of 2.3 stewart calculus completed

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No remarkable Observation today.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. Solve 20-30 problems of 2.4 (stewart calculus)
2. Apply more rigor to the understanding of linear algebra and calculus.
3. Start Part 1: Virtualization in OSTEP
4. Start Unix shell project.

---