# Date
1 July 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivatives (stewart calculus)
- Linear Algebra
- Explore Virtualization Part I (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition
- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Book -> Hammack: Book of proof
- Video -> Essence of Linear Algebra - 3blue1brown

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Cartesian Product forms an set of ordered pairs. (Hammack)

Suppose we have set A = {1, 2, 3, 4} and B = {a, b, c, d} Then

A * B = {(1, a), (2, b), (3, c), (4, d)}

Howeve (1, a) != (a, 1) as it violates the rule of ordered pairs.

### Isolation of processes is neccessary for Protection in OS. (OSTEP)

The issue of the Protection arises from the fact we got multiple programs running which may have their own instruction and processes, However we don't want one process affecting the other process running.

Isolating the Processes from one another is the key to protection, where the running process must be isolatated so it doesn't affect the other process resource and has it own memory, disk.

### Designing an OS is always tradeffos between efficiency and User experience. (OSTEP)

Virtualizing the OS and making it easy to use can add massive overheads to the system.

What are the overheads?
- Extra time (more instructions)
- Extra space (memory or disk)

So we must make careful tradeoffs where we should analyze User experience is necessary and where it is not.

---

## Experiments Performed

Experiment 1:
- Overview: **Applied program to Understand Persistance** 
- Path: **02_Experiments/Understanding_os/2_OSTEP/io.c**
- Reference: **OSTEP section 2.4**

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 30/60 exercises completed of 2.4 stewart calculus
- 1.1 exercise completed Hammock
- 1.2 exercise completed Hammock

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

*We have abstracted Computers in such a way through decades of engeneering transformation however it is a system like car as well Where it Evolved from [Transistor(low level) -> Logic Gates -> Processors -> Assembly -> Application(C, or any high level application)]*

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand.

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?

---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. complete problems of 2.4 (stewart calculus)
2. complete 1.3, 1.4 (Hammock: Book of Proof).
3. Start Part 1: Virtualization in OSTEP
4. Start Unix shell project. ( Didn't start today :( )

---