# Date
2 July 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Sets 1.3, 1.4 (Hammack)
- Explore Virtualization Part I 4, 4.1 (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Book -> Hammack: Book of proof

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### A plane or space can be thought of just cartesian product. (Hammack)

A plane $\mathbb{R}^2$ or the space $\mathbb{R}^3$ can be thought abstractly as a result of the cartesian product.

* **$\mathbb{R}^2$ ($\mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}$):** The combination of $\{(x, y) : x \in \mathbb{R}, y \in \mathbb{R}\}$
* **$\mathbb{R}^3$ ($\mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R} \times \mathbb{R}$):** The combination of $\{(x, y, z) : x \in \mathbb{R}, y \in \mathbb{R}, z \in \mathbb{R}\}$

Likewise instresting combinations can result in instresting dimensional or plane, line, space allocated by these cartesian products which we can experiment with.


### Program is just lifeless bytes stored unless it is converted to process. (OSTEP)

OS provides user abstraction of the process, where the programs itself is just bytes of data stored in disk which maybe will go through execution process through user instruction.

How does OS convert this program -> process? (Assume command given by user: ./hello)
- Loads the Executables (instructions, data etc.)
- Alloacates memory
- Initializes registers
- Starts execution

Program on disk -> Loaded into RAM -> CPU starts executing -> Process


### Policy is Logical algorithm of what the low-level machinery(mechanics) should follow for OS to efficiently utilize the system. (OSTEP)

As for implementation of Virtualization of the CPU is done by:
- Low-level machinery(mechanics): Eg Context switch which gives ability to OS to stop one program and run another.
- Intelligent algorithms(policies): Scheduling Policy part of policies which helps os to make decisions on which programs to run.

For Example:

Scheduling policy utilizes the mechanics to schedule programs to run Using:
- Historical information (which program has run more on the last minute?)
- Workload Knowledge (what types of program to run?)
- Performance metrics (Is the system optimizing for interactive performance or throughput?)

As CPU only understand instructions, so Scheduling policy use different techniques and algorithms to determine which programs should get the CPU and how long it should last.

---

## Experiments Performed

No experiments.

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 1.3 exercise completed Hammack
- 1.4 exercise completed Hammack

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No Pariticular Observations.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (Will research at weekend)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?
8. How does whole low level mechanics and policies run a whole proces (I need abstract overview)?
---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. complete problems of 2.4 (stewart calculus)
2. complete 1.5, 1.6 (Hammock: Book of Proof).
3. comlete Part 1: Virtualization (4.2, 4.3) in OSTEP
4. Start Unix shell project. ( Didn't start today too :( )

---