# Date
7 July 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Derivaties (Stewart Calculus)
- Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Explore Virtualization Part I 4.2, 4.3 (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Video -> Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### There is three different techniques to understand system of linear equations. (18.06 MIT)

We can find solution for the system of linear equation by three approaches:
- Row approach
- Column approach
- Matrix approach

**Row Approach**
In row approach we understand the equation row wise:

2x + y = 1

-x + 2y = 2

we just find the common point to the both equation where they intersect.

**Column Approach**
In column approach we use linear combination approach:

$$x \begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ -1 \end{bmatrix} + y \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix}$$

**Matrix Approach**
In matrix approach we understand the equation equation in just matrix way.

$$\begin{bmatrix} 2 & 1 \\ -1 & 2 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 1 \\ 2 \end{bmatrix}$$

## Experiments Performed

No experiments.

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 68/68 exeercise completed of 2.4 Stewart Calculus

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No particular observations.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (Will research at weekend)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?
8. How does whole low level mechanics and policies run a whole proces (I need abstract overview)?
---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. complete 20/88 problems of 2.5 (stewart calculus)
2. complete 1.5, 1.6 (Hammock: Book of Proof).
3. comlete Part 1: Virtualization (4.4, 4.5) in OSTEP
4. Start Unix shell project. ( Didn't start today too :( )

---