# Date
8 July 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Chain Rule (Stewart Calculus 2.5)
- Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Explore Virtualization Part I 4.4, 4.5 (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Video -> Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Two process to solve the system of linear equations. (MIT Opencourse 18.06)

#### Elimination (Matrix or row equation substitution)
Elimination is the process of find the solution to the system of linear equation by achieving a upper triangular form for the system.

$$
\begin{pmatrix} 
a_{11} & a_{12} & a_{13} \\ 
a_{21} & a_{22} & a_{23} \\ 
a_{31} & a_{32} & a_{33} 
\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix} x \\ y \\ z \end{pmatrix} = 
\begin{pmatrix} b_1 \\ b_2 \\ b_3 \end{pmatrix}
$$


Two Outcome to the Solution:

- **Temporary Failure**
In case of the temporary failure we can rearange the system to find solution by process of elimination and substituting the value and find the varaibles for which the solution might exist.

- **Permanent Failure**
Permanent failure is the case in which the system fails to find a unique solution sugesting that there is no invertible matrix to the solution and the equations doesn't intersect at a point.

#### Dot Product

In Dot Product we compute the matrix and a vector and we get the vector to get the vector which might be the soultion to the equation.

$$
\begin{pmatrix} 
\leftarrow & \mathbf{r_1} & \rightarrow \\ 
\leftarrow & \mathbf{r_2} & \rightarrow \\ 
\leftarrow & \mathbf{r_3} & \rightarrow 
\end{pmatrix} 
\mathbf{x} = 
\begin{pmatrix} b_1 \\ b_2 \\ b_3 \end{pmatrix}
$$


### Process API has different methods to control process task of what the Operating system should be performing. (OSTEP 4.2)

There are different methods to the process API for os to create and manage the process:

- Create -> Method to create new process. (input through shell, mouse clicks)
- Destroy -> To destroy the process.
- Wait -> There are times when the process must be executed without interuption.
- Miscellaneous Control -> Stop and resume process.
- Status -> can be used to get info of the process. (eg how long has it run, what state is it in)

### We Virtualize the memory to create address space for the process.(OSTEP 4.3)

As the Instructions and the static data live in the memory for execution. We must virtualize the memory to create the private address space for the each process, so we can control what the process can accesss and that they don't interfere with each other.


For Any execution of the process the required instructions and data must be loaded to the address space for the execution.

## Experiments Performed

No experiments.

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 20/88 exeercise completed of 2.4 Stewart Calculus

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No particular observations.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (Will research at weekend)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?
8. How does whole low level mechanics and policies run a whole proces (I need abstract overview)?
---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. complete 50/88 problems of 2.5 (stewart calculus)
2. complete 1.5, 1.6 (Hammock: Book of Proof).
4. Finish lecture 2 of Gilbert Strang (MIT Opencourseware 18.06)
3. comlete Part 1: Virtualization in OSTEP
4. Start Unix shell project. ( Didn't start today too :( )

---