# Date
9 July 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Chain Rule (Stewart Calculus 2.5)
- Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Finish Virtualization Part I(OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Video -> Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### You have to change matrix order to apply row or column operation. (MIT 18.06 Lec:2)

There are two types of operation you can perform on matrices:
- Row Operation
- Column Operation

#### Row Operation
To perform operations on the rows of a matrix, we multiply by an elimination or permutation matrix on the **left side**.

$$\text{Matrix to operate with (Left)} \times \text{Matrix to operate on (Right)} = \text{Result we want}$$

$$E_{21} \cdot A = U$$

For example, to subtract $2$ times row 1 from row 2 in a $2 \times 2$ matrix:

$$
\begin{pmatrix} 
1 & 0 \\ 
-2 & 1 
\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix} 
a & b \\ 
c & d 
\end{pmatrix} 
= 
\begin{pmatrix} 
a & b \\ 
c - 2a & d - 2b 
\end{pmatrix}
$$

#### Column Operation
To perform operations on the columns of a matrix, we multiply by an elimination or permutation matrix on the **right side**.

$$\text{Matrix to operate on (Left)} \times \text{Matrix to operate with (Right)} = \text{Result we want}$$

$$A \cdot E_{12} = B$$

For example, to subtract $2$ times column 1 from column 2 in a $2 \times 2$ matrix:

$$
\begin{pmatrix} 
a & b \\ 
c & d 
\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix} 
1 & -2 \\ 
0 & 1 
\end{pmatrix} 
= 
\begin{pmatrix} 
a & b - 2a \\ 
c & d - 2c 
\end{pmatrix}
$$


### When we load executable file to memory it is divided into segments conceptually. (OSTEP)

Executable files when loaded are dived into segements in the address space of the process:
- High Address
- Stack Segment
**Free Space**
- Heap Segment
- Global Data
- Code Segment
- Low Address
---
## Experiments Performed

No experiments.

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 48/88 exeercise completed of 2.4 Stewart Calculus

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No particular observations.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (Will research at weekend)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?
8. How does whole low level mechanics and policies run a whole proces (I need abstract overview)?
---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. complete 70/88 problems of 2.5 (stewart calculus)
2. complete 1.7, 1.8 (Hammock: Book of Proof).
4. start lecture 3 of Gilbert Strang (MIT Opencourseware 18.06)
3. Start Part I: 5.0 of Virtualization in OSTEP

---