# Date
13 July 2026

## Objective

What am I trying to learn today?

- Chain Rule (Stewart Calculus 2.5)
- Linear Algebra finish Lec 2(18.06 MIT)
- Explore Part I 5.1, 5.2 (OSTEP)

---

## Resources

- Book -> Operating System: Three Easy Pieces (OSTEP)
- Video -> Linear Algebra (18.06 MIT)
- Book -> Stewart Calculus 9th edition

---

## Concepts Learned (In my own words)

### Fork creates a new child process similar to that of calling process. (OSTEP)
fork() creates a new child process by duplicating the calling process.

### Process has three states. (OSTEP)
A process can be in one of three different state in a given time.

- Running
Process is Currently being executed.
- Ready
Process ready to run (scheduled).
- Blocked 
performing event related to this so other process can have process rather than being idle.
---
## Experiments Performed

No experiments.

---

## Exercise Compeleted

- 88/88 completed of Stewart Calculus
- 

---

## Observations

**What surprised me?**

No particular observations.

---

## Questions

Things I still don't understand. (Will research at weekend)

1. How did newton connect the Issac Borrow and Pierre de Fermat concepts to invent Calculus?
2. What is hessian matrix?
3. Can we abstractly determine which mathematical equations to use and not depend on classical ML methods?
4. How do embeddings follow the principle of linear algebra?
5. How did we figure out application of mathematics in ai and how is it evolving so fast?
6. What is deep abstraction behind the linear algebra system (applied in embedings, vector database), how did we derive these systems?
7. When there are many concurrently executing threads within the same memory space, how can we build a correctly working program? What primitives are needed from the OS? What mechanisms should be provided by the hardware? How can we use them to solve the problems of concurrency?
8. How does whole low level mechanics and policies run a whole proces (I need abstract overview)?
---

## Next Actions

Tomorrow:
1. start problems of 2.6 (stewart calculus)
4. complete lecture 3 of Gilbert Strang (MIT Opencourseware 18.06)
3. Read Part I: 5.2, 5,3 of Virtualization in OSTEP

---